Yes — I’d add a Meme Flavor selector alongside the character and visual direction, so the starting point becomes:

Character + Meme Flavor + Aesthetic

For Middle-earth, useful flavors could include:

- One Does Not Simply — solemn overstatement; Boromir-style “why is this task impossible?” energy
- You Shall Not Pass — boundary-setting, gatekeeping, hard no
- Taking the Hobbits to Isengard — frantic, repetitive, chaotic momentum
- Second Breakfast — indulgence, cozy food, “one more little treat”
- Precious / My Precious — obsession, possessiveness, niche fixation
- Council of Elrond — group-chat deliberation and too-many-opinions energy
- Samwise Loyalty — earnest friendship, unwavering support
- Gollum Internal Debate — conflicting impulses / “me vs. me”
- Unexpected Journey — travel mishaps and reluctant adventure
- Mordor Commute — workplace dread framed as an epic quest

I’d treat these as creative archetypes, not simply reuse raw meme templates. That keeps the final visual original, while the source-image panel can still show attribution and “rights status: unknown” for any archive material used.

This would make the tool feel much closer to Vibe Atlas: pick a recognizable emotional language first, then let the character and image evidence shape the card.
11:31 PM
Yes — that framing is the right one. Meme Flavor should be a first-class selector, not a buried caption option.
The strong product pattern is:
Character + Meme Flavor + Aesthetic
That gives the workbench a clean creative grammar:
Character = who carries the emotional logic
Meme Flavor = what kind of joke/social situation this is
Aesthetic = how the artifact looks and feels
That is much more coherent than “pick random LOTR thing, pick random image, generate random caption.” It turns MemeForge into a modular version of Vibe Atlas instead of a novelty meme generator with a cloak on.
Why this works
The Meme Flavor layer solves the “mishmash” problem.
Without it, Middle-earth MemeForge risks becoming:
Boromir quote + random screenshot + maybe vocabulary? enjoy your soup.
With it, the tool becomes:
Choose a recognizable emotional/social archetype, then let Middle-earth provide the metaphor and visual world.
That makes the output feel intentional.
I’d define Meme Flavor as an archetype object
Each flavor should have a few structured fields behind the scenes:
Field
Example
Flavor name
One Does Not Simply
Core emotion
Overwhelm / impossible task
Social situation
Procrastination, bureaucracy, hard task, dread
Tone
Solemn, dramatic, deadpan
Default characters
Boromir, Aragorn, Frodo
Visual cues
Council room, grave expression, epic lighting
Caption pattern
“One does not simply…” / solemn impossible-task framing
Avoid
Direct template copy if source rights are unclear
So the UI shows a cute selector, but the engine gets real creative constraints.
Middle-earth starter flavors
I’d keep your list almost exactly, with maybe slight labels for clarity:
One Does Not Simply
Solemn overstatement; impossible-task energy.
Best for: studying, chores, admin, “this should be easy but isn’t.”
You Shall Not Pass
Boundary-setting, refusal, hard stop.
Best for: distractions, bad habits, social limits, “absolutely not.”
Taking the Hobbits to Isengard
Frantic repetition, chaotic momentum.
Best for: spirals, hyperfocus, errands, too many tabs open.
Second Breakfast
Cozy indulgence, little treat logic.
Best for: snacks, rest, reward systems, tiny joys.
Precious / My Precious
Obsession, possessiveness, niche fixation.
Best for: favorite objects, fandom attachment, special interests.
Council of Elrond
Too many opinions, group-chat deliberation.
Best for: decision paralysis, committee energy, everyone has notes.
Samwise Loyalty
Earnest support, emotional steadiness.
Best for: friendship, encouragement, study buddy posts.
Gollum Internal Debate
Conflicting impulses, me-vs-me.
Best for: discipline, cravings, procrastination, self-negotiation.
Unexpected Journey
Reluctant adventure, “how did I get here?”
Best for: travel, errands, new projects, accidental side quests.
Mordor Commute
Daily dread as epic quest.
Best for: work, hospital, school, traffic, errands, Mondays.
I’d add 3 more
Because these give you broader use cases:
The Beacons Are Lit
Urgent alert / rally-the-group energy.
Best for:
“Help, I need backup”
urgent tasks
group chat summons
“the situation has escalated”
Fly, You Fools
Escape, evacuation, “leave immediately.”
Best for:
bad decisions
toxic situations
time to log off
exam panic avoidance
I Am No Man
Reveal, reversal, underestimated power.
Best for:
confidence posts
feminine rage / competence
“surprise, I handled it”
underdog victory
Those three expand the emotional range beyond cozy/chaotic/dread into urgency, escape, and triumph.
Important distinction: flavor ≠ template
I agree with your phrasing: these should be creative archetypes, not raw meme templates.
So the generator should not merely recreate:
exact quote + exact movie still + Impact font
Instead, it should produce:
an original card that borrows the recognizable emotional grammar.
Example:
Template-y version
ONE DOES NOT SIMPLY
finish UWorld review in 20 minutes
Funny, but low-ceiling.
Archetype version
One does not simply “skim the explanation.”
The answer choice has lore. The distractor has ancestry. The table has demands.
That feels more Katie-coded and more reusable.
How this connects to Vibe Atlas
Vibe Atlas likely works because it starts with emotional/visual language, not just data fields.
So MemeForge should mirror that:
Vibe Atlas:
Actor/scene + Vibe + Visual direction → social artifact

MemeForge:
Character + Meme Flavor + Aesthetic → shareable artifact
​
That makes them siblings under the Fandom launchpad.
Suggested UI hierarchy
For LOTR MemeForge, I’d make the creation panel:
Character
Boromir
Gandalf
Frodo
Sam
Aragorn
Legolas
Gimli
Galadriel
Gollum
Éowyn
Meme Flavor
One Does Not Simply
You Shall Not Pass
Second Breakfast
etc.
Aesthetic
Epic parchment
Medieval marginalia
VHS fantasy still
Cozy Hobbiton
Dark Mordor productivity
Illuminated manuscript
Chaotic group chat
Study-card mode
Artifact Type
Vocabulary card
Hero card
Meme card
Shareable one-pager
Carousel slide
Reaction image
Source panel
Image/source reference
Attribution
Rights status
Notes/evidence
My recommendation
Yes: make Meme Flavor a canonical selector.
For the first version, I’d use:
Character + Meme Flavor + Aesthetic + Artifact Type
​
But in the marketing/product language, keep it punchier:
Pick a character, a meme flavor, and an aesthetic. MemeForge turns fandom language into an original shareable artifact.
That gives you a clean product spine and preserves the weird. The weird is not the problem; the weird just needs folders.
hmmmmmm look at the repo for the meme forge and help me figure out how to describe a more “shareable” product and less like carbon copy of the grid maker hero
7:11 AM
I looked at the repo. The good news: the current direction is already close — the launchpad copy says “Make the feeling shareable”, and Middle-earth says “Search the visual record. Find the feeling. Turn it into something worth sending.” That is the right product center of gravity.
The problem is that the actual workbench still smells a little like Vibe Atlas wearing a wizard hat because the flow is mostly:
search visual evidence → select source → generate visual object → export PNG / save packet
That is structurally very close to the grid-maker/packet workflow. To make MemeForge feel more shareable and less like a carbon copy, I’d describe it less as a visual record/search tool and more as a reaction artifact studio.
The product description I’d use
Short version
MemeForge turns fandom language into shareable reaction cards.
Pick a character, a meme flavor, and an aesthetic; then forge a polished 4:5 card you can send, post, save, or turn into a content packet.
Slightly fuller version
MemeForge is a fandom-native artifact studio for making original, sendable reaction cards.
Instead of copying meme templates, it uses recognizable emotional archetypes — “You Shall Not Pass,” “Second Breakfast,” “Council of Elrond,” “My Precious” — as creative starting points. Choose the character, meme flavor, aesthetic, and source inspiration; MemeForge turns the vibe into a polished shareable object with optional caption support.
That makes it feel less like “grid in, card out” and more like “social language in, artifact out.”
The key repositioning
Right now the repo language leans on:
visual record
source evidence
archive search
object generation
packet staging
Those are operationally useful, but they make the product feel like another curation pipeline.
For MemeForge, I’d foreground:
shareable reaction
sendable artifact
inside-joke translator
meme flavor
fandom emotional archetype
4:5 card
caption-ready, but not caption-first
So the product becomes:
“I have a feeling / situation / joke. Turn it into a polished fandom artifact.”
Not:
“I found images. Arrange them into a post candidate.”
The core grammar should change
For Vibe Atlas:
Actor + Vibe + Grid → Idea Packet
For MemeForge:
Situation + Meme Flavor + Character + Aesthetic → Shareable Artifact
That is the main distinction.
I would not make visual search the first conceptual step, even if it remains in the UI. Visual search should support the artifact, not define the product.
Suggested launchpad copy
Current launchpad card:
Search the visual record, find the feeling, and forge a caption artifact worth sending.
I’d change it to:
Turn a tiny social situation into a Middle-earth reaction card — choose a character, meme flavor, and aesthetic, then forge a shareable artifact worth sending.
Or shorter:
Choose a character, meme flavor, and aesthetic. Forge an original Middle-earth reaction card worth sending.
For the card label, I’d change:
02 / meme & caption engine
to:
02 / reaction-card studio
or
02 / shareable artifact studio
My pick:
02 / reaction-card studio
​
Because it sounds more specific and less SaaS-generic.
Suggested Middle-earth hero copy
Current:
Search the visual record. Find the feeling. Turn it into something worth sending.
This is nice, but still slightly archive-first.
I’d revise to:
Start with the joke, the mood, or the tiny crisis. MemeForge turns Middle-earth archetypes into original reaction cards worth sending.
Or more polished:
Pick a Middle-earth archetype for the moment — impossible task, hard boundary, cozy indulgence, internal debate — then forge it into a polished reaction card.
Or Katie-coded:
For when the group chat needs Tolkien-level emotional infrastructure.
That last one is more memorable, but probably as a subline, not the only description.
Recommended hero structure
Eyebrow
MemeForge / Middle-earth reaction-card studio
​
H1
Forge the moment into a memeable artifact.
​
Intro
Choose a character, meme flavor, and aesthetic. MemeForge turns tiny social situations into original Middle-earth reaction cards — polished enough to post, weird enough to send.
​
This is much less “grid maker hero.” It centers the share action.
The workbench should say “make a reaction card,” not “generate object”
Current mode labels:
1. MemeForge — generate the object
2. Rednote Spellbook — title · caption · tags
​
I’d change to:
1. Forge Card — reaction artifact
2. Share Copy — title · caption · tags
​
or:
1. Reaction Card — make the shareable
2. Spellbook Copy — package the post
​
My pick:
1. Reaction Card
   make the shareable

2. Spellbook Copy
   title · caption · tags
​
This makes step 1 feel native to the product, not like a generic asset generator.
Add “Meme Flavor” as the differentiator
The strongest way to avoid “carbon copy of grid maker hero” is to make the selector language impossible to confuse with Vibe Atlas.
Right now the controls are:
Character filter
Creative direction
Tone
Layout
That is useful, but generic. I’d make the canonical creation spine:
Situation
Meme Flavor
Character
Aesthetic
Source Inspiration
​
Example labels
Situation
What moment are we making shareable?
Placeholder:
“trying to leave the group chat,” “reviewing one more UWorld explanation,” “setting a boundary without apologizing”
Meme Flavor
What Middle-earth emotional language should carry it?
Options:
One Does Not Simply
You Shall Not Pass
Second Breakfast
Council of Elrond
Gollum Internal Debate
Samwise Loyalty
Mordor Commute
The Beacons Are Lit
Fly, You Fools
I Am No Man
Character
Who carries the energy?
Aesthetic
How should it look?
Source Inspiration
Optional visual reference / archive evidence.
This flow makes the product feel like a meme/reaction studio instead of an image-search grid pipeline.
Copy principles for MemeForge
I’d give the repo/product a few rules:
1. Share-first language
Use:
send
post
reaction card
tiny social situation
group chat
artifact
shareable
remix
archetype
Avoid leading with:
grid
visual evidence
archive
selected result
packet
output IDs
object generation
Those can stay in admin/system copy.
2. Archetype-first, not template-copy
Use:
Original reaction cards inspired by fandom archetypes.
Avoid:
Generate memes from LOTR templates.
3. Source-supportive, not source-led
Use:
Add a visual reference if you want the card grounded in a specific scene or artifact.
Avoid:
Search the visual record first.
4. Card is the product
The thing Katie gets should be framed as:
reaction card
share card
sendable artifact
post-ready card
Not:
visual object
output
generated item
Product positioning options
Option A — clean/producty
MemeForge is a reaction-card studio for fandom-native social posts.
Choose a situation, meme flavor, character, and aesthetic; MemeForge turns the emotional logic into an original shareable card.
Option B — more playful
MemeForge is where tiny crises become Tolkien-level reaction cards.
Pick the moment, choose the archetype, and forge a card worth sending to the group chat or staging as a post.
Option C — best umbrella fit
MemeForge is the shareable-artifact workbench inside Fandom.
Where Vibe Atlas turns visual moodboards into post packets, MemeForge turns fandom archetypes into original reaction cards, captions, and post-ready shareables.
I’d use Option C in docs and Option B in UI.
How I’d describe the difference from Vibe Atlas
Vibe Atlas starts with a visual board and asks:
“What could this collection become?”

MemeForge starts with a social moment and asks:
“What fandom archetype makes this instantly sendable?”
​
That is the cleanest distinction.
Revised launchpad card
LOTR MemeForge

Turn tiny social situations into Middle-earth reaction cards.
Choose a character, meme flavor, and aesthetic; forge an original shareable artifact for the group chat, Rednote, or the packet queue.

Enter workbench →
​
Revised workbench hero
Middle-earth
MemeForge

Forge the moment into a memeable artifact.

Choose a social situation, meme flavor, character, and aesthetic. MemeForge turns Middle-earth emotional archetypes into original reaction cards — polished enough to post, weird enough to send.
​
Revised step copy
01 / name the moment
What situation are we making shareable?

02 / choose the meme flavor
Pick the Middle-earth emotional language.

03 / shape the card
Choose character, aesthetic, and optional source inspiration.

04 / package it
Export PNG, write Rednote copy, or save as an Idea Packet.
​
My actual recommendation
Keep Fandom as the launchpad and MemeForge as the Middle-earth reaction-card workbench, but make this the conceptual spine:
Situation → Meme Flavor → Character → Aesthetic → Share Card
That single change separates it from Vibe Atlas.
Vibe Atlas is moodboard-to-packet.
MemeForge is moment-to-reaction-card.
That’s the difference you want.
i was even thinking it should be a free response query where you say “i want a meme about …. not wanting to go to work on friday” and it makes it up using the gif flavor and character or scene / reaction vibe template
7:14 AM
Yes — that is much better.
That shifts MemeForge from:
“Pick from this structured form and generate a card.”
to:
“Tell MemeForge the social moment, then let it choose the funniest fandom translation.”
That is the shareable product. The form becomes creative steering, not the starting point.
Better product spine
Instead of:
Character + Meme Flavor + Aesthetic
​
I’d make the primary flow:
Free-response moment → Reaction archetype → Shareable card
​
Then the optional controls are:
Meme Flavor
Character / Scene
Aesthetic
Platform
​
So the user can say:
I want a meme about not wanting to go to work on Friday.
And MemeForge decides:
Meme flavor: Mordor Commute / One Does Not Simply / Gollum Internal Debate
Character/scene: Frodo approaching Mordor, Gandalf blocking the door, Boromir solemnly warning the council
Reaction vibe: dread, refusal, dramatic overstatement
Output: a 4:5 reaction card + optional caption
That is way more product-native.
The input box should be the hero
I’d make the first field large and conversational:
Prompt label
What do you want the meme to be about?
​
Placeholder examples
not wanting to go to work on Friday
​
trying to study but my brain has left the realm
​
when the group chat starts planning something complicated
​
me protecting my little treat like it’s the One Ring
​
Then underneath:
MemeForge will translate your moment into a fandom reaction card.
​
That instantly explains the product.
Optional steering controls
After the free-response field, I’d show lightweight “steering chips,” not heavy dropdown bureaucracy.
Meme flavor
Default: Auto-pick
Options:
Auto-pick
One Does Not Simply
You Shall Not Pass
Second Breakfast
My Precious
Council of Elrond
Gollum Internal Debate
Mordor Commute
Taking the Hobbits to Isengard
Samwise Loyalty
Character / scene
Default: Surprise me
Options:
Surprise me
Gandalf
Boromir
Frodo
Sam
Aragorn
Éowyn
Gollum
The Fellowship
Mordor
The Shire
Council of Elrond
Reaction vibe
Default: Auto
Options:
Deadpan
Dramatic
Cozy
Chaotic
Tender
Unhinged but printable
Group-chat oracle
Aesthetic
Default: Auto
Options:
Epic fantasy still
Parchment card
Cozy Shire
Dark Mordor commute
Medieval marginalia
Clean reaction card
Rednote editorial
The crucial thing: Auto should be the default everywhere. The user should not have to become the cursed product manager of their own joke unless they want to.
Example generation
Input:
I want a meme about not wanting to go to work on Friday.
Auto-pick could produce:
Option 1 — Mordor Commute
Card text:
The Friday shift has been sighted beyond the Black Gate.
Secondary:
I regret to inform the council that I am scheduled.
Option 2 — You Shall Not Pass
Card text:
You shall not pass into my weekend.
Secondary:
respectfully, my calendar has chosen violence
Option 3 — Gollum Internal Debate
Card text:
We wants the paycheck.
We does not wants the workplace.
Secondary:
a fiscally responsible tragedy
Option 4 — One Does Not Simply
Card text:
One does not simply go to work on Friday with a willing heart.
Secondary:
the body clocks in; the spirit remains in the Shire
That is the magic. It should feel like it understands the social situation first.
Product language
I’d describe MemeForge as:
A fandom reaction-card generator.
Tell it the moment. MemeForge translates it into a shareable artifact using character energy, meme flavor, and visual style.
Or more fun:
Type the tiny crisis. Get the fandom reaction card.
That is excellent landing-page copy.
Revised hero
Middle-earth MemeForge

Type the tiny crisis.
Forge the reaction card.

Tell MemeForge what the meme is about — work dread, group-chat chaos, one-more-little-treat behavior, internal debate — and it will translate the moment into an original Middle-earth share card.
​
CTA:
Make my meme
​
Input placeholder:
I want a meme about not wanting to go to work on Friday...
​
Revised flow
1. Name the moment
Free response.
I want a meme about...
​
2. Optional flavor steering
Default auto.
Flavor: Auto-pick
Character/scene: Surprise me
Reaction vibe: Auto
Aesthetic: Auto
​
3. Generate concepts
Instead of one output, I’d generate 3–4 candidate concepts first.
Each candidate should show:
Meme flavor
Character/scene
Card text
Secondary line
Why it works
Suggested visual direction
Example:
Mordor Commute · Frodo nearing Mordor
“The Friday shift has been sighted beyond the Black Gate.”
Why it works: frames ordinary work dread as epic reluctant quest.
​
Then Katie picks one.
4. Forge card
Once selected, generate the 4:5 artifact.
5. Package
Export PNG
Generate Rednote copy
Save Idea Packet
Maybe “Copy to clipboard” for group chat text
Why candidate concepts matter
If the AI jumps straight to one card, it may miss the funniest angle.
But if it shows multiple translations, the product feels like a creative partner:
“Here are four ways Middle-earth can metabolize your problem.”
That is a very strong workbench pattern.
New architecture distinction
This makes the difference from Vibe Atlas extremely clean:
Vibe Atlas:
Start with visual collection → curate mood → packet

MemeForge:
Start with social moment → translate into fandom archetype → share card
​
That is no longer a carbon copy. It is a sibling product.
What I’d call the free-response field
Good options:
The Moment
Cleanest.
“What moment are we forging?”
Tiny Crisis
Funniest.
Very Katie-coded.
Meme Brief
Producty and clear.
Reaction Prompt
More functional.
My pick:
The Moment
​
Helper:
Describe the tiny crisis, joke, feeling, or situation.
​
Placeholder:
not wanting to go to work on Friday
​
The backend prompt should ask for translation, not caption generation
The AI task should be:
Translate this social moment into 3–4 original Middle-earth reaction-card concepts. Do not copy existing meme templates verbatim. Use recognizable archetypes as emotional grammar. Make the result sendable, concise, and visually direct.
Each concept should return:
{
  conceptTitle: string;
  memeFlavor: string;
  characterOrScene: string;
  reactionVibe: string;
  aesthetic: string;
  cardText: string;
  secondaryText: string;
  visualDirection: string;
  captionSeed?: string;
  rationale: string;
}
​
Then selected concept becomes the draft card.
My recommendation
Yes: make the free-response query the main interaction.
The product should be:
Tell MemeForge the moment. It finds the Middle-earth reaction.
Everything else — flavor, character, scene, aesthetic, source image — should be optional steering.
That is the version that feels genuinely shareable, not like a grid-maker clone with elvish trim.
i dont know how to put this in the logic but if we want a “meta” meme like “make a meme about sam and frodo funny” or something like it should be able to translate that too. like very aware of the meme generator engine
7:16 AM
Yes — this is an important mode. MemeForge needs to distinguish between:
Situation prompts
“not wanting to go to work on Friday”
“when the group chat makes a plan with 14 steps”
“trying to study but my brain left the realm”
Meta / generator prompts
“make a meme about Sam and Frodo funny”
“do something with Gandalf being dramatic”
“make a Legolas reaction image”
“I want a Boromir meme but not cringe”
“something Sam/Frodo friendship-coded”
The second kind is not really a social situation. It is a creative brief asking the engine to invent the situation.
So the logic should have an explicit interpretation layer before generation.
Add a “Prompt Interpreter” step
Before generating cards, MemeForge should classify the user’s free-response prompt:
PromptIntent =
  | "specific_situation"
  | "meta_character_request"
  | "meta_scene_request"
  | "style_request"
  | "caption_rewrite"
  | "unclear";
​
Then it extracts what it can.
Example:
{
  intent: "meta_character_request",
  requestedCharacters: ["Sam", "Frodo"],
  requestedDynamic: "funny friendship / quest loyalty",
  requestedMemeFlavor: null,
  inferredSituationNeeded: true,
  userGoal: "make a funny Sam and Frodo meme"
}
​
The key flag is:
inferredSituationNeeded: true
​
Meaning:
The user did not provide a specific everyday situation, so MemeForge should invent 3–4 possible social moments that fit the requested character/dynamic.
The engine should translate vague/meta prompts into candidate “moments”
For:
make a meme about Sam and Frodo funny
The interpreter should not fail or ask “what about them?” unless the user explicitly wants precision.
It should generate candidate interpretations like:
Candidate A — Samwise Loyalty
Moment: when your friend says they’re fine but clearly are not
Card:
“I can’t carry your emotional baggage, Mr. Frodo.”
“But I can make snacks and walk beside it.”
Candidate B — Group project
Moment: when one person has the entire group project on their back
Card:
Frodo: “I am carrying the ring.”
Sam: “And I am carrying this entire Google Doc.”
Candidate C — Tiny errand becomes epic
Moment: when a simple task becomes a full quest
Card:
We were only meant to get groceries.
Why are we now three side quests deep?
Candidate D — Study buddy energy
Moment: when your friend refuses to let you quit
Card:
“There’s some good in this UWorld block, Mr. Frodo.”
“And it’s worth reviewing.”
That is what “aware of the meme generator engine” means: it can recognize that the prompt is under-specified and automatically supply the missing meme situation.
Use a two-stage generation model
I’d define it as:
1. Interpret the prompt.
2. Expand into meme concepts.
3. Forge the selected concept into a card.
​
Stage 1 — Interpret
Input:
make a meme about Sam and Frodo funny
Output:
{
  "promptIntent": "meta_character_request",
  "userWants": "a funny Sam and Frodo meme",
  "knownElements": {
    "characters": ["Sam", "Frodo"],
    "tone": "funny",
    "fandom": "Middle-earth"
  },
  "missingElements": ["specific situation", "meme flavor", "visual direction"],
  "strategy": "invent several everyday/social situations that map naturally onto Sam and Frodo's loyalty-and-burden dynamic"
}
​
Stage 2 — Concept candidates
Generate several options, each with a filled-out interpretation:
{
  "moment": "when your friend says they are fine but obviously are not",
  "memeFlavor": "Samwise Loyalty",
  "characterOrScene": "Sam and Frodo on the road",
  "reactionVibe": "tender deadpan",
  "cardText": "I can’t carry it for you.",
  "secondaryText": "But I can absolutely hover supportively with snacks.",
  "whyItWorks": "Uses the familiar Sam/Frodo support dynamic but maps it onto modern friendship care."
}
​
Stage 3 — Forge
The selected concept becomes the visual artifact.
The product should say this explicitly
Add helper copy under the free-response box:
Describe a situation, or just name a character/scene. If you’re vague, MemeForge will invent a few angles.
​
Or more fun:
Give me the tiny crisis — or just toss me a character and a vibe. I’ll find the joke.
​
That tells the user vague/meta prompts are allowed.
Add an “Auto-translate vague prompts” rule
In the system prompt / backend generation instructions:
If the user gives a meta prompt rather than a concrete situation — for example, “make a meme about Sam and Frodo funny” — do not ask for clarification by default. Treat it as a creative brief. Extract requested characters, scene, tone, relationship, or meme type. Then invent 3–4 concrete meme situations that would make the brief shareable.
​
That’s the logic.
Input taxonomy
I’d make the interpreter recognize at least these prompt types:
Prompt type
Example
Engine behavior
Concrete situation
“not wanting to go to work Friday”
Map to best meme flavors
Character meta
“Sam and Frodo funny”
Invent situations using their dynamic
Scene meta
“Council of Elrond group chat”
Invent social situations matching scene energy
Quote/flavor request
“You shall not pass but for burnout”
Use requested flavor, adapt situation
Aesthetic request
“cozy Shire little treat meme”
Infer Second Breakfast / cozy indulgence
Platform request
“Rednote post about Gollum internal debate”
Generate card + caption package
Vague vibe
“make it unhinged but wholesome”
Invent situation and flavor options
UI behavior
When the prompt is meta/vague, the generated concepts should show a small “translated as” line:
You asked: “Sam and Frodo funny”
Translated as: friendship support, shared burdens, one person refusing to let the other quit.
​
Then list candidate cards.
That makes the engine feel clever rather than random.
Best product phrase for this
I’d call this capability:
Meme Translation
Not generation. Translation.
Because that captures the magic:
Turn a vague human/social/fandom prompt into a shareable meme concept.
Possible microcopy:
MemeForge translates messy prompts into fandom-native reaction cards.
​
Or:
Say the moment badly. MemeForge finds the archetype.
​
Extremely Katie-coded and actually accurate.
Implementation rule of thumb
Default behavior:
If enough information exists to generate multiple plausible meme concepts, generate.
Only ask a follow-up if the prompt has no usable fandom, tone, character, scene, situation, or desired emotion.
​
So:
“Sam and Frodo funny” → generate
“Gandalf workplace boundaries” → generate
“make it sad but cute” → generate, maybe with auto character
“meme” → ask one short follow-up or show starter chips
Final framing
The logic should be:
User prompt is not the final caption.
User prompt is the raw ore.
MemeForge smelts it into:
- situation
- meme flavor
- character/scene
- reaction vibe
- card copy
- visual direction
​
So yes: build the engine to be self-aware of its job.
It should understand both:
“I have a situation; make it Middle-earth.”
and:
“I have a Middle-earth thing; find the joke.”
That dual translation mode is what makes it feel like an actual MemeForge, not a form with a fake beard.
